In December 1978, a middle-aged French man in an oversized dropshoulder wool
coat, strode across the streets of Beijing and caused a scene among local
residents.
In the following days, he caused an even bigger stir when he climbed atop the
Great Wall and struck a victory pose with his arms.

He man was Pierre Cardin, the first Western fashion designer to visit China
shortly after the country announced its policy of opening-up and reform to the
world.

Three months later, the designer and entrepreneur organized the country's first
fashion show at the Cultural Palace of Nationalities in Beijing by not only
flying in 220 haute counture outfits from his archives, but also 12 professional
models and a team of photographers, curators and stylists from Paris.

Xinhua News Agency reported on the second day of the show, in an exclusive to
apparel industry insiders, that the ``variety of colors on runway contrasted
sharply with the uniform black and gray of the audience".

Over the following decade, the ``Marco Polo of the 20th century", as he was
dubbed by the Chinese media, continued to make headlines in China.
He set up shows on the Great Wall and at the Forbidden City, and opened them to
the public for the first time --- one of the events attracted an audience of
10000 people.
He also sent nine Chinese models to Paris to attend the fashion week there and
to take part in a motorcade which saw the qipao-clad models being driven under
the Arc de Triomphe in convertible cars flying the five-starred red flag.

By the late 1990s, Cardin had not only successfully persuaded Chinese consumers
that any attire with the logo of his eponymous brand was the ultimate symbol of
status, wealth and refinement, but he also proved to the world that the nation,
a textile manufacturing giant, could also become a prodigious consumer of
garments.

The first Western brand to be convinced by this was Italian luxury menswear
brand Ermenegildo Zegna, which in 1991 made its Chinese debut by opening up its
first fashion boutique in Beijing.

Today, as China has risen to become the largest single market for the
century-old fashion house, accounting for about one-third of its global sales,
Ermenegildo Gildo Zegna, the fourth-generation helmsman of the family business,
noted that his company's achievements ``would not have happend if it hadn't
taken the market seriously by making an early entry, building the right store,
and continuing to invest in new things."
