Tonight we'll take you inside the growing, shadowy global market of cyber espionage.
We looked specifically at a controversial Israeli company called the NSO Group, valued at nearly a billion dollars, that says it developed a hacking tool that can break into just about any smartphone on Earth.
As we first reported in March, NSO licenses this software, called Pegasus, to intelligence and law enforcement agencies worldwide, so they can infiltrate the encrypted phones and apps of criminals and terrorists.
Problem is the same tool can also be deployed by a government to crush dissent.
And so it is that Pegassu has been linked to human rights abuses, unethical surveillance, and even to the notoriously brutal murder of the Saudi Arabian critic Jamal Khashoggi.

Headquartered in the Israeli city of Herzliya, NSO Group operates in strict secrecy.
But co-founder and CEO, Shalev Hulio, has been forced out of the shadows and not into a good light, accused of selling Pegasus to Saudi Arabia despite its abysmal record on human rights.

"And the world is that you sold Pegasus to them, and then they turned it around to get Khashoggi."

"Khashoggi murder is horrible. Really horrible. And therefore when I first heard there are accusations that our technology been used on Jamal Khashoggi or on his relatives, I started an immediate check about it. And I can tell you very clear, we had nothing to do with this horrible murder."

"It's been reported that you yourself went to Riyadh in Saudi Arabia, you yourself sold Pegasus to the Saudis for $55 million."

"Don't believe newspapers."

"Is that a denial? No?"

Pegasus is so expensive because it lets authorities do what they long couldn't: break into smart-phones remotely, making everything in them completely visible.
All emails, contacts, and texts; new, old, encrypted or not.
Pegasus allows detectives and agents to track locations, listen in to and record conversations, basically turning the phone against its user.
In the company's eight-year history, they've never let cameras in, but they wanted to show us they're like any high-tech company, with PlayStations and Pilates.
But there was a lot we couldn't show.
The work is top secret, and some employees are ex-military intelligence and Mossad.
Pegasus is such a sensitive spy tool NSO has to get approval before it can be licensed to any client, let alone Saudi Arabia, from the Israeli Defense Ministry, as though it's an arms deal.

"Why would the government of Israel want, you know, what seems to be an enermy to have this technology?"

"I'm not going to talk about specific customer."

"But can you say that you won't and haven't sold Pegasus to a country that is known to violate human rights and imprison journalists and go after activists?"

"I only say that we are selling Pegasus in order to prevent crime and terror. So we have the suspect vehicle stopped."

Penetrating an iPhone was an issue in the terrorist attack in San Bernardino, California, in 2015.
Right now, we have one down outside the car.
The FBI said it couldn't get into the shooter's phone and Apple refused to help over privacy concerns, an issue that had come up before.

"Intelligence agencies came to us and say, 'We do have a problem. With the new smartphones, we cannot longer get valuable intelligence.'"

"They were encrypted?"

"Yeah, exactly."

"How many lives do you think Pegasus has saved?"

"Ten of thousands of people."

Hullo referred us to the head of a Western European intelligence agency who, off camera, confirmed that Pegasus is a game-changer in foiling attacks by European Jihadists, as well as shutting down drug and human trafficking rings.
But here's the question: how often has Pegasus also been used to go after a government's critics?

"If you were in Saudi Arabia, you'd be in jail."

"Well, I don't think I would be in jail. I don't think anyone would find my body like what Jamal Khashoggi has faced."

Ghanem Almasarir is a Saudi comic living in London, who has a popular YouTube satire show that takes aim at Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman.
Last year, as the regime was kidnapping, locking up, and torturing Saudi dissidents, Ghanem says he and other critics abroad got text messages like this fake DHL notice that, if clicked, would download Pegasus onto their phones, so they could be spied on.

"And you clicked on it?"

"Of course. Yes, unfortunately."

"Yeah, 'Who's sending me a package?' Now Pegasus is designed to catch terrorists."

"So who define the terrorist? Do you think I am a terrorist? Do I look like a terrorist? I don't know what a terrorist looks like. But I mean, the problem is that Saudis consider people asking for freedom for speech as terrorist. They consider anybody who is a threat to their regime is a terrorist."

"What do you do when your customer has a definition of 'terrorist' that isn't our definition? In some countries, the opposition are 'terrorists'?"

"No such thing. Every customer that we sold has a very clear definition of what terrorism is. And it's basically bad guys doing bad things in order to kill innocent people, in order to change the political agenda. I never met with a customer that told me that oppositions are terrorists."

"Well, they're not going to tell you."

"But if they will act like that they will not going to be a customer. There are more than hundred countries that we will never sell our technologies to."

"The problem is, there are not proper controls around how this technology is being used."

Ron Deibert heads Citizen Lab, a human rights watchdog at the University of Toronto where researchers, like computer scientist Bill Marczak, say they figured out a way to detect if a phone has been targeted by Pegasus which they did in the case of Ghanem Almasarir and other Saudi dissidents.

"This technology is being used by autocratic dictators who can mount global cyber espionage operations simply by purchasing the technology."

"So you are say that once they sell this technology, once the Israelis sell it, they know how it's being used?"

"Well, the question is, 'Do they care to look?' I think if they cared to look, they would have the opportunity to see how it was being used."

But Shalev Hulio says NSO is unable to see who their clients are targeting.
Only after there's an allegation of misuse can NSO demand target-data in order to investigate.

"And I can tell you that in the last eight years that the company exist, we only had real three cases of misuse, three cases. Out of thousands of cases of saving lives, three was a misuse, and those people or those organization that misuse the system, they are no longer a customer and they will never be a customer again."

The first case we uncovered in Mexico -- but Citizen Lab says it was able to find many more cases: 27 in Mexico alone, where Pegasus was used to target political rivals, reporters, and civil rights lawyers.
They also say they found the Pegasus link on the phone of this human rights activist, Ahmed Mansoor, from the United Arab Emirates.

"I think that people that are not part of criminal or terrorist activities have nothing to worry about."

Tami Shachar, who was NSO's co-president, told us Pegasus is used with surgical precision.

"It's not mass surveillance technology. This is really for the Bin Ladens of the world."

"But the reason that your company has been criticized and the reason that we're here doing this interview is because countries have used your technology on human rights activists, on journalists."

"There are allegations that have veen brought. There are reports that were said. And we take every such allegation very seriously. And we look into it. Nothing has been proven."

To protect against misuse, she says, NSO has three layers of vetting potential customers: one by the Israeli Defense Ministry; a second by its own business ethics commitee; and thirdly --

"Our contractual agreements have our customers sign, that the only intended use of the system will be against terror and crime."

"Oh, they sign? Come on. You have an autocratic government and they say, 'Oh we're not going to use it except against criminals,' and you just believe them? No, come on."

"As I said, the contractual agreement comes after two layers and, you know, I would love for you to sit in one of our business ethics commitee. We have a tough discussion because imagine a country is facing major terrorist threats. At the same time, they have some corruption issues and you have to sit in that room and weigh what is more important: to help them fight terror? Or maybe there is a chance that it's going to be misused. It's not a black and white answer. It's a tough ethical question."

There are other ethical questions in deploying Pegasus.
To hone in on a target, for instance, authorities often infect the phones of innocent people around them, like family members.
It's been reported that Mexican authorities used Pegasus to capture drug-lord Joaquin Guzman, better known as El Chapo, by tapping the phones of a few people he talked to while he was onthe lam.

"I read it in the newspaper, the same as you in order to catch El Chapo, for example, they had to intercept a journalist, an actress, and a lawyer. Now by themself, they are not criminals, right? But if they are in tough with a drug lord, and in order to catch them, you need to intercept them, that's a decision that intelligence agencies should get. What if you can prevent the 9/11 terror attack? And for that, you had to intercept the son, the 16-year-old son of bin Laden? Would that be legit or not?"

Targeting someone's inner circle has become an issue in the Khashoggi case.
Omar Abdulaziz, an influential Saudi online critic based in Canada, was texting with Khashoggi up to his death.
Now, Abdulaziz is suing NSO, alleging that the Saudis used Pegasus to hack his phone, and thereby spy on Khashoggi.
We asked Shalev Hulio if his investigation explored the wider cirfumference around the slain journalists.

"I can tell you that we've checked, and we have a lot of ways to check. And I can guarantee to you our technology was not used on Mamal Khashoggi or his relatives."

"Or the dissidents? Like the relatives? Omar Abdulaziz? and .."

"I'm not going to get into specific. I tell you that if we will figure out that somebody is misused the system, we will shut down the system immediately. We have the right to do it, and we have the technology to do it."

"It begs the question, did you shut down the Saudis?"

"I'm not going to talk about customers and I'm not going to go into specific. We do what we need to do. We help create a safer world."
